An in vitro study revealed that A. pseudalhagi extract may decrease bilirubin levels by cathartic effect or activation of liver enzymes.[30] Another study showed that intravenous administration of proantocyanidin isolated from A. pseudoalhagi diminishes serum creatinine phosphate levels and lipid peroxidation both in the myocardium and serum in animals with experimental myocardial infarction.[31] A survey in 1990 indicated that a phenolic compound from A. kirgisorum S. (Polyproanthocyanidin) impressively inhibited protein synthesis in rabbit reticulocyte.[32] A. camelorum also has therapeutic potential in the treatment of diabetes and other chronic diseases. The suggested mechanism of action is a-Glucosidase inhibition.[23]
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cell Culture, Transfection, and Plasmid Constructs-Culture and transfection of COS1 cells were performed as previously described (2). Mammalian expression plasmids pmCFP-Rac1 and pmYFP-Rac1 encoding the NH2-terminal fusion of monomeric cyan fluorescence protein (CFP) or yellow fluorescence protein (YFP) to Rac1 as well as Rac1 derivatives having the G12V, R66A, C189S, or 6Q (183KKRKRK → 183QQQQQQ) mutations have been described (22, 23). The K186E mutation in Rac1 was generated using the Stratagene (La Jolla, CA) QuikChange site-directed mutagenesis kit. pLyn-mCFP consists of a 10-amino acid myristoylation/palmitoylation sequence of Lyn kinase fused to the 5'-end of the mCFP gene (6). pLyn-mYFP was generated by replacing mCFP with mYFP. Rac1(C189S) or Rac1(6Q/C189S) devoid of the geranylgeranylation signal were inserted in frame into the COOH terminus of pLyn-mCFP to generate pLyn-mCFP-Rac1(C189S) or pLyn-mCFP-Rac1(6Q/C189S). mCFP-GerGer and mYFP-GerGer containing fluorescence protein fused to the CAAX geranylgeranylation signals, without the upstream polybasic region, were kindly provided by Dr. R. Tsien (University of California, San Diego) (24). Plasmids encoding HA-mYFP, Lyn-HA-mYFP, Myc-mCFP, and Lyn-Myc-mCFP fusions were constructed by replacing the enhanced green fluorescent protein gene in pEGFP-C1 (Clontech) with each tag-encoded gene indicated. Various Rac1 alleles (WT, R66A, 6Q, C189S, and 6Q/C189S) were then cloned into all four plasmids. All plasmids were verified by sequencing. Oligonucleotide sequences are available upon request. Rac1 derivatives used in this study and their properties are described in Table 1. Culture of Y. pseudotuberculosis Infection of Mammalian Cells and Immunofluorescence Protection Assay of Bacterial Uptake-Conditions for growth of virulence plasmid-cured Y. pseudotuberculosis YPIII(p-) with or without YopE or YopT and infection of COS1 have been described (22). The plasmid-cured Y. pseudotuberculosis strain lacks the virulence plasmid (pYV) that encodes YopE and YopT and is efficiently internalized into host cells. Strains that harbor the YopE Rho family GAP (22) or the YopT family CAAX protease (kind gift of Dr. James Bliska, SUNY Stony Brook) contain plasmids encoding these proteins as well as the plasmid pYV (yopT-deficient yopE::kan yopH::cam; referred to as strain YP17) to allow translocation of these proteins via the bacterial type III secretion system (22). For bacteria lacking the virulence plasmid, the YPIII(p-) strain was grown logarithmically in Luria Bertani broth at 26 °C until an A600 of 0.7, prior to inoculation onto cultured mammalian cells (22). For strains harboring the pYV plasmid and Yop-encoding plasmids, bacteria were grown with aeration at 26 °C overnight in broth supplemented with 2.5 mm CaCl2 and 100 μg/ml ampicillin and then subcultured and grown at 26 °C until A600 of 0.2. At this point, the cultures were shifted to 37 °C and aerated for 1 h. A multiplicity of infection of 50:1 was used for YPIII(p-) incubations, and a multiplicity of infection of 25:1 was used for other derivatives. For the pYopE-expressing plasmid, 0.1 mm isopropyl-β-d-thiogalactopyranoside was supplemented during infection to induce YopE expression. Bacterial uptake was assayed using immunofluorescence protection as described (6). Briefly, bacteria appropriately cultured were incubated with transfected cells for 30 min at a multiplicity of infection of 50 at 37 °C. After incubation, the adherent cells were analyzed for internalized or surface-bound bacteria as described previously (6). The monolayers were fixed in 3% paraformaldehyde and probed with primary antibody directed against Y. pseudotuberculosis, followed by a fluorescent secondary antibody (anti-IgG conjugated to either Alexa Fluor 594 or Cascade Blue) to detect extracellular bacteria. The cells were then permeabilized (2) and probed with antibodies directed against the bacteria to allow detection of both intracellular and extracellular bacteria. The coverslips were then probed with appropriate secondary antibodies to detect intracellular bacteria. FRET Measurements-The basis of the assay is that association between Rac1 derivatives fused to either monomeric CFP or monomeric YFP should be detected as a FRET readout. COS1 cells were first transfected with a combination of various derivatives of mCFP-Rac1 and mYFP-Rac1 and then challenged with bacteria. Infections were stopped by fixation after 30 min. The cells were then imaged and analyzed for sensitized FRET from CFP to YFP essentially as described (22), using correction factors for CFP (0.32) and YFP (0.18) for bleed-through from CFP emission and cross-YFP excitation by the FRET filter set. To measure FRET, images from YFP, CFP, and FRET filter sets (22) were captured, choosing regions of interest about nascent phagosomes. Sensitized FRET was then calculated from these regions, by subtracting the CFP and YFP correction factors, using exactly the same procedure as described previously (22). FRET signals were normalized by combination of mCFP and mYFP emissions calculated from the CFP and YFP filter sets using the following formula as described (25).